I can think of no better way to begin a health program
than listening to the words of the renowned raw food author,
David Wolfe.
David exemplifies the work that he does,
radiating good health, energy and passion.
He explains in this interview the nature
of natural raw foods and their healing abilities
along with those from the herb kingdom,
raw chocolate and more.
He says once you get rolling on a light
and color-filled diet, your dietary choices become easy
and the weight falls off.
(bright electronic music)
We've seen the world of nutrition go through a lot
of evolution, starting with your advertisements for Geritol
in the 1950s and 60s, too.
Really, through high protein, high carbohydrate,
vegetarian, classic vegetarian, vegan
and here we are with you.
So, can you give us an idea of the history,
give us a little historical perspective
on what's happened with food and why it's ended up here.
Well, we tried better living through, (laughs)
we tried better living through chemistry,
we tried better living through antibiotics,
we tried better living through hormone injections
into factory-farmed animals, we tried better living through,
basically, a poisoned ecosystem, and it didn't work
and we ended up with more obesity now than ever before,
we've got more frustration with diets now than ever before,
with all the stuff we have available,
all the diet technology we have available.
Total confusion.
Total confusion and chaos!
And what we really do with living foods is we just,
we bring an anchor in under all that
so we can be anchored and finally get our direction
and our destiny in alignment.
This is really the power of living foods
'cause it's very common sense-based.
With all the different theories about diet,
all the different conflicting ideas,
how are we gonna make sense of it?
Well, I think we have to go back to intuition or instinct,
and really tune in to what our common sense is telling us.
Every creature on the planet eats a living food diet.
We are the only ones who disturb our food in any way,
and not only that, we disturb our food in an extreme way.
I mean all the way to microwaving,
and I mean, what is going on, you know?
Processed sugar to the max, hydrogenated oil to the max,
factory farming, et cetera, et cetera.
So to me it's almost like a cosmic giggle.
I mean it's absolute dietary madness out there,
and what we represent is just the simple approach.
Let's just add, very important word,
add living foods to our diet,
which means raw plant food, essentially.
It's a lot easier to sneak up on lettuce
than it is a rabbit.
(laughs) Yeah.
That's gotta be the basis of our original diet.
People say, "Oh my god, primates are eating meat!
"They're tearing monkeys apart!"
blah blah blah, and it's like,
well, let's look at the other 98% of what they're doing,
or 99% of what they're doing, which happens to be plants.
Well, also, they can travel at speeds
up to 60 miles an hour and have claws and fangs. (laughs)
Yeah, and look at us,
I mean, we could barely walk down the street anymore.
Exactly.
And so, this whole thing about, you know,
humans are, you know, the naked ape-killer,
ape and all that stuff, is actually a disturbed
theory created by eating a diet that is not really natural
and has nothing to do with what's normal,
and now we're kind of getting back
into the real understanding
of the most popular phrase in the world,
which is "You are what you eat."
You are what you eat crosses all barriers,
all cultural lines, all language,
every single culture throughout all of history
has had that phrase in their language,
and the reason is is because I think, personally,
that that was the Zip file we got
when we were emailed to the planet.
Right, exactly, good way to put it.
You know, so we got something and that was it.
Well, why is it seeming so complicated
to plug back into such a basic reality for us,
aside from, we know the programs that are running out there
in terms of advertising media,
the cultural programs trying to suck us into more
products that have a long shelf life, shall we say.
Yeah, we've got to unwind ourselves out
and that is a, it's an emotional process,
and it's psychological, and it's social.
These are the main factors about food.
It's not really physical.
It's mostly emotional.
People eat for emotional reasons,
and so unwinding out those behaviors
and actually bringing in food that is 100% good for you,
that is high in nutrients, massively high in minerals
and vitamins and enzymes, and low in calories,
I mean, that's how you lose weight.
You wanna lose weight?
Eat celery all day.
Eat a cucumber all day.
Eat apples, eat oranges,
things that are natural and normal,
and what happens is the weight just comes right off.
In the world of living food, it's very common at any event
that I do to have anywhere from two to six people
in the audience who've lost over 100 pounds
without trying, without suffering,
without guilt, without fear, without shame,
without having to use willpower, essentially,
and that is, that's shocking news, really.
I mean, every event I do, I'll say,
"How many people here have lost over a hundred pounds?"
And there'll be two, three, four, five, six people out there
that say, "Yeah, I have."
And I say, "Yeah, how'd you do it?"
and here's how they did it.
You just add living foods in your diet.
The whole spectrum of living foods,
not just lettuce, not just watermelon.
Can I just do salads and make it work?
Yeah, I mean, after a while, you go salad-crazy.
I mean, I've done that,
salad for breakfast, lunch and dinner,
for weeks and weeks and months and months.
I mean, you just go completely nuts,
or bananas, or you go plum crazy,
or whatever the metaphor you wanna use.
There's a tremendous cornucopia of living foods
that we can add into our diet at any time,
and they can be better than organic, or at least organic,
they can be more fun than we were formerly allowed
to have with food,
they can be extremely nutritious,
at a level of nutrition we've never even known before,
we never even had it in our whole existence, our whole life!
That's what's available now, and what we add in,
again, using that word, add, because people are like,
"You mean I can't have
"A, B,
Cupcakes?
"C, D, E, F, G."
You know, if we get into that game,
like you can't have this, what ends up happening
is we get into denial, willpower, battling ourselves, guilt.
That's a losing game, nobody wins that game.
We lose, everybody loses.
If we get into what people really want,
which is novelty, taste sensations,
fun, unique experiences,
then we line up the food that supports that,
which is raw fruits and vegetables,
raw nuts and seeds,
raw seaweeds,
raw organic sprouts,
grasses like wheatgrass juice,
herbs, the greatest herbs in the entire world,
and an incredible category of foods
that we've really pioneered in the last 20 years,
which is superfoods,
a group of foods that are really loaded,
I mean, that have got a lot of bang for the buck.
Now if we add those things in,
we can start going "Whoa!"
instead of having some kind of whey protein glue
going into our morning shake
with some kind of salmonella-infested egg or whatever.
We can then say, "Here, let me just put a little bit of this
"in there, I'll throw a little bit of that in there,
"I'll throw my fruit juice in there,
"blend the whole thing up, get the blueberries in there,"
and walk out the door with a zing, with a level of nutrition
that's probably greater than most Americans
actually get in a week, or even sometimes a month,
right there in one blenderful.
I mean this is how simple we can make living foods
for people now.
So it doesn't have to be a complicated recipe book,
although I love that stuff,
I mean I love complicated raw food recipes
and I'll eat that if it's made with love
any day of the week.
I'll have a vegetable juice any day of the week
but my goal is to make it as easy as possible
for someone to get from point A to point Z.
So you have somebody
who's living on a processed diet,
what is the first thing you tell them?
Where do they begin this journey?
It's unique to the person.
It depends on what they're into.
For example, I can go to somebody and say,
"Hey, you should get into vegetable juice,"
because I can tell that they like playing with food a lot,
and they're a kitchen person,
and they just will start juicing celery,
they'll juice carrots, cucumbers, lemons,
apples, everything's going down that juice machine
and they can do it and it's fun for them.
Now for me, personally, I'm not that type of person.
I'm so busy with what I'm doing that, like,
I'll drink a vegetable juice any day of the week
as long as it's organic and freshly made.
And someone's made it. (laughs)
And someone's made it with love
but, you know, I'm not gonna clean the juicer.
Right.
That's just how it works.
Right, so what do you do?
So you're a busy, on-the-go person and--
So I do everything in a blender,
and so what I do is I,
that could be somebody else's personality.
They might go, "I can blend stuff
"but juicing, sorry, can't do it," so we go,
OK, in that case, we go,
"Let's focus everything on the blender,"
so we get everything in there.
We get the blueberries in there,
we can cut up kiwis, throw that in there,
we can throw raspberries in there,
we can throw blackberries in there,
and then instead of that heinous whatever protein powder,
which is really coming from factory farms
and loaded with gelatin and just literally,
the most awful pesticides ever, (mumbles) awful,
we can just go, "OK, that's gone
"and here's what's coming in, boom!"
and we just bring in a whole bunch of superfoods,
goji berries, raw chocolate, cacao beans.
I was gonna get around to that
because you're big on that right now
and that,
That's the big one.
now you're catching people, so that emotional eating thing,
"Oh, cacao, that sounds like chocolate to me."
How about eating chocolate without guilt?
How about having the best food ever all the time?
I mean, how about getting into such alignment with our food
that every time we eat, it's an ecstatic experience,
and we never have to worry about calories
or what time we're eating, or who we're eating with,
or any of that ever again.
That just goes all into the ash bin of history, literally.
Yeah.
That's all gone now.
That's fabulous.
See, this is all a technological innovation,
really, is what it is.
What's a technology?
It's a way of doing more with less.
That's technology,
and so what we've figured out now
is how do we actually get what we really want with food,
the emotional component, the fun, the novelty, the flavor,
and have no side effects,
and lose the weight with these without trying,
right, without willpower, and as an answer to that question
comes the living food diet,
the superfood diet,
the chocolate miracle diet,
essentially.
Right.
Right, right.
You know, all that stuff, you suddenly, there it is.
Even in Eating for Beauty,
I mean, this extends inside to outside.
That's what people don't understand.
Yeah.
I mean, women spend hundreds of dollars
a year, certainly, even a month in some cases,
to try to make beautiful skin
in a beautiful package on the outside.
In fact, it's the blueberries, it's the living foods,
it's the herbs, really, that is making people like you
and others that are very healthy like that beautiful.
Yeah, you just stop aging, too.
That's another side effect.
You stop aging, your skin,
I mean, I look at the back of my hands
and they're exactly the same as they were
when I was 16 years old.
Exactly the same, I haven't aged one day.
I don't know how old you are
but you do have 16-year old hands,
and I know you're not 16.
Yeah, I'm not 16. (laughs)
You've done too much in the world
to be 16. (laughs)
I've been around the sun now 37 times.
(laughs) Wow.
I literally, interestingly enough,
in 1989, I broke my back,
and I literally could not do a push up for 10 years,
and I couldn't actually do any kind of pushing at all,
even pushing a broom, literally,
without pain for about two and a half years,
and I couldn't sleep on my side for two and a half years.
I mean,
Wow.
I went through that level of an injury.
Every doctor, every chiropractor,
every alternative healer said it's a mechanical problem,
you are not gonna able to fix it, blah blah blah.
Well, with living foods, superfoods, herbs and yoga,
I am completely well now.
I can do anything and to me, that is a miracle
because I lived in a situation
of being in pain non-stop for years
and there are people out there right now
who, a woman came to me yesterday just like that,
had been in pain everyday for seven years,
and I said "There is hope for you,
"there is a solution out there for you."
And we just give her a few tools and she was on her way
but that, I'm not speaking because it's an idea or a theory.
That's my experience, I know, actually,
how to heal that kind of injury.
Right, well, let's get into the notion of,
I want to ask you something really quickly,
when you're making your smoothies,
how do you feel about raw nut milk?
Making your own raw nut milk,
I love making that milk.
Absolutely.
I love it.
Nut milk is great.
I mean, we can go through the whole cornucopia,
right, we've got fruits,
you can with that any way you want.
You can eat the fruit whole, you can make juices out of it,
you can press it, get the juicy goodies out of it,
all that stuff, and when it's living,
when it's raw, it has all its enzymes intact.
Right.
It has its water, living water intact.
Let's talk about enzymes for a sec.
Why is this so important?
We're not getting enough in our diet anymore.
Why is it so important
to reintroduce enzymes alone?
I believe it was Dr. Edward Howell
who did the most work in Western literature
in informing us that enzyme depletion
is a major cause of aging,
and if we're eating living food,
raw fruits, raw vegetables, raw nuts and seeds,
raw seaweed, et cetera,
what happens is we actually get those enzymes,
they're in the food.
Even dried herbs contain active enzymes
that once they hit water or hit your digestive system,
they become active.
Now if those herbs have been cooked,
those enzymes are no longer active.
Those enzymes are catalysts, and they help
with the cascade of metabolic events
that occurs when we're digesting food
or when we've been injured,
or when we're attempting to heal ourself
of a long-standing chronic condition, et cetera,
and they essentially, over time, lighten the burden
or the load that our pancreases are performing,
that our liver is performing,
that our circulatory system is performing,
and they just make things a little bit easier
and it's a cumulative effect.
This is why somebody can eat junk food for 30 years
and then suddenly, boom, it hits them.
You can get away with it for a while,
but then one day, it's time to pay the piper.
There's a little bean counter in there somewhere.
Right, you've used up those chips. (laughs)
Yeah, and once you use those up,
but the great thing about it,
and this is where I actually disagree with Dr. Howell,
is that once you do get onto living food
and you get those enzymes back in your food,
you're eating all of your food raw
or at least a good portion of it, at least 80%,
that's our goal, really,
to get people up to 80% living food,
then what happens is you start to actually put more cash
in your enzyme bank account.
You start building that account up and then all of sudden,
you propel yourself into a future
with a little bit of reserves, and that's what we need.
I mean, if something happens to you,
you go through an emotional stress,
you lose someone in your family,
you go through an injury, something, a car accident,
something like that, you need that bank account,
and enzymes cannot be replaced from any other source
than either living foods or enzyme supplements,
and that's where we get that.
Right.
How do you feel about enzyme supplements?
They vary in quality, a lot.
Do you mind giving me,
because we don't have sponsors doing,
we're free, we can say what we want.
OK.
What are two of your top enzymes,
your favorite enzymes?
Well, my favorite enzyme is the enzyme that I developed
over a period of about six or seven years
called Beauty Enzymes,
and the reason why we developed it along that way,
what my expertise really is, in that field is,
enzymes both help with digestion and metabolism.
Now, in digestion, that means they help digest your food,
so you take them with food.
Another part of that, the metabolic side is,
let's say you have a long-standing chronic condition,
let's say you just wanna get younger.
Let's say you have an injury,
then you need metabolic enzymes.
Well we've taken both the best of both those worlds
and combined it into one formula.
Now there are great enzymes in the digestive enzyme world,
lot of them, I mean, it's an endless--
Many, OK.
Many.
There's great enzymes in the metabolic enzyme world
like Vitalzym, like Wobenzym.
Right.
And what we've done is we just said,
"OK, how can we take that and this and go like this,
"and do it organic?"
So our enzyme product, Beauty Enzymes
is a hundred percent organic product,
and actually, we can't put that on the bottle
because there's no organic enzyme certification.
Yeah, gotcha.
OK, so, now when you're doing,
say if you're eating live foods anyway,
do you still take an enzymatic supplement?
Do you need to do that or do you only do it
if you're eating something that's been processed or cooked?
That's a great question.
I mean, do we need to take enzyme supplements
when we eat processed or cooked food,
and the answer is probably, yes,
it would be very helpful to do that.
Do we need to take enzyme supplements
if we're eating all living food?
No, but it's helpful.
It is helpful, and I feel,
like for me personally,
a woman came up and asked me the other day,
she's like, "Are you ever in pain?"
and I was, I thought about that
and I had been in pain for years,
but I've been so far out of that for so long,
that I completely forgot that I was ever in pain
and that question really stuck in my mind,
and I thought, "I'm never in pain, ever."
Right.
For any reason, I never have sore muscles,
anything like that, but I believe
that part of the reason that is
is because not only do I eat living food,
but I also take enzyme supplements.
And we're in an oxygen-deprived environment,
now that is the basis for our metabolic functioning,
so if you're, wouldn't you say that that also helps overcome
some of the deficiencies we're going through
by being a sheerly oxygen-deprived planet?
You can't make that stuff up unless you're on a machine.
Absolutely, yeah.
We live in a disturbed atmosphere.
A disturbed atmosphere on every level
but let's just start with the one thing we can't do without,
oxygen, so wouldn't this help?
Yes, it does, 'cause enzymes thin your blood out.
What they do is they magnetize each red blood cell
and you can see this under a live microscope.
You can give somebody a host of enzyme supplements,
like say, eight to 10, several thousand milligrams
of an enzyme supplement,
and then watch their blood in a half hour
and you can see that their blood actually goes
from being clumpy to being, the red blood cells separate out
and have a little bit of a magnetic charge.
Well you know what that means.
That means the red blood cells can carry more oxygen.
Absolutely, that's fabulous.
I wanna try (mumbles) I'm gonna try your Beauty Enzymes,
that sounds great.
OK, so, we've got a little bit in there on that.
I wanna talk about the superfoods
and most powerful herbs and then, ultimately,
we've gotta get to cacao,
chocolate. (laughs)
Yeah, yeah.
So let's talk about superfoods
and the most powerful herbs, what's going on there?
I've been a live foodist for 13, 14 years now.
I mean, I have really been,
I mean I've been eating only live food for over 13 years.
So I'm so far into researching food for real,
not some trumped up way where I read some article somewhere
and then I'm reporting some disturbed information.
No, you're well respected in your research.
Yeah, it's like I live it.
You know, and I just wanna put that out there
because a lot of people in the diet
and nutrition world don't live it.
They are not living examples of what they teach.
They don't have the, whatever, the willpower,
the discipline or whatever it takes to really, like,
walk their talk.
Now that age is over with, we're out of that now.
Now we're on to a different program,
and in the living experience of being a live foodist,
and being in the world that I'm in,
I mean, I've done something like 1500 live performances,
educational classroom experiences,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, over the last 13, 14 years,
I have met every major live foodist in the whole planet
from all different countries.
I've had tremendous experience with people
who have actually healed themself of X, Y and Z.
Right.
So from all that, what I found is that living food
is the basis, that's the base,
and that is a very important base for anybody,
and then, where we're really getting the real,
kind of, fine attunement
is with the most powerful herbs in the world,
so the top 20 herbs in the world, which is,
makes it easy 'cause that means you don't need to know
what herb number 50 is or herb number 100,
or you don't need to know herb number 1,000.
Off the top of your head,
give us a few of the top 20 most powerful.
Goji berry, reishi mushroom, ginseng,
astragalus, He Shou Wu,
this is in the Chinese world.
In Ayurveda, it's say, Tulsi, Shatavari, Ashwagandha.
In Amazonia, it's the Camu berry,
it's the Pau d'arco bark, Chuchuhuasi bark,
Cat's Claw bark, and I could just go on indefinitely,
and right there, I've listed over 10 herbs,
and if you just did those 10 herbs, if you just did that,
that would have a radical effect on your life,
just doing that,
having the discipline of doing that everyday.
Yeah.
The way we approach this, again,
it's very important that I restate this,
that you add these things in.
You don't change what you're doing
because it's my understanding,
it's actually my belief now from what I've seen,
that when you get on live food as a base as best you can,
when you get on to the most powerful herbs
and then superfoods, the intelligence of that food
does speak to your body, and it does cause changes to happen
inside your metabolism and in your consciousness
that make it easier and easier and easier
to make healthier choices,
and environmentally friendly choices.
In fact, you become, literally, an environmental warrior.
You become like an example of the living solution,
and that's an enormous part of this whole green movement.
We could point all day about that's wrong, this is bad,
this is the worst ever--
We wanna just know where does it go from here.
Exactly.
We wanna go up.
We wanna go up, we don't need to worry
about pointing this, that. (mumbles)
So what is the best message?
To be a living solution,
so that everything you wear is organic, is natural,
all your jewelry is made by hand, by friends,
where you don't use any kind of products on your body
that are harmful, everything going in your body
is literally an offering to the temple of your soul.
Literally, and I'm at a point
where I've been doing this long enough,
where I don't eat anything just haphazardly
or I'm not halfway through a bag of whatever
before realizing what's going on.
I used to do that, though. (both laugh)
Yeah.
Everything's eaten with an intention and a goal with soul.
That, that--
If you're talking about, essentially,
conscious living--
Conscious living--
On every level, though.
At every level, at every level,
but my experience is, is that unless we get a grip on
"You are what you eat," we ain't gonna get to the goal
because this temple, this vehicle,
has got to be an embodiment of living solution
or where are we gonna end up?
Exactly, and people's argument is,
"Yeah, but we've never lived longer."
Well, A, that's already starting to reverse itself
and B, it doesn't mean that there's any quality of life.
Yeah, you might have been hunted down
by a saber-tooth and died young,
but you were probably healthy and in good shape.
You're probably, yeah.
When you died,
and that's not the case anymore.
Most people live at least half of their life
in kind of a chronic decline.
The phrases people ask me, "Oh, but we're living longer,"
or they state it to me and I say,
"No, we're not, we're dying longer."
We're dying longer, that's very well put,
very well put.
And this is another thing about live food.
It's about living, I mean, living to the max.
I literally go everyday all day,
sometimes I stay up for days in a row.
I mean, I do that all the time.
The other day I stayed up the entire night,
got up into San Francisco 4:30 in the morning,
then got up at 8 and you know, fire,
go on it, full on all day long.
That's living.
We don't need to be sleeping longer,
we don't need to be watching TV longer,
we need to be living longer,
and emphasis on living.
Yes.
(clears throat) Well, OK,
I know that you got a lot to do here at this festival.
I wanna find out about cacao before we go.
It's something that it's a little darling of yours right now
and there's a lot of it at this show,
and at one point, I look at it and I think,
OK, but it's almost like it's going overboard on one level
when you go to some of the booths, for example, here.
It's almost too much of a statement of chocolate
and organic coffee rather than living foods.
Let's talk about the way you view chocolate, cacao.
The way that, just to be perfectly frank
and honest with you, what actually caused
this cacao revolution is that one night,
I was in Maui and for years I'd gone to Hawaii
and a friend of mine would give me a little bit
of cacao beans, which is the food
that all chocolate's made out of.
I had no idea what it was, so now it's called cocoa beans.
You see it spelled different ways.
Anyway, I didn't know what it was,
but I said, "Well, what do I do?"
He just said, "Oh, just peel it, throw it in a smoothie."
Well, I said, "OK, whatever."
So we started out with three, then it was 10,
then it was 50, then it was a hundred.
Next thing I know, we got like 300 cacao beans,
I'm at a friend's house.
This is about four or five years ago,
and we're peeling cacao beans and throw it into a smoothie
and then a friend of mine said,
"Hey, have you ever just eaten one?"
I said, "No,"
and when I bit into the first cacao bean that I ate,
the cacao god actually communicated with me.
Instantaneously, it happened in a millisecond,
and what I mean by the cacao god or the deva of the plant,
the plant spirit, communicated with me,
and basically said this.
Look, you've been trying to convince people
to drink wheatgrass.
That's all good, it's the best ever,
but you might only reach a few million people
with that message.
If you get on board with me, you will touch the hearts
of billions of people.
It's true.
And that literally happened in instantaneous download
and I was like, "Whoa," and then,
I literally signed on the dotted line
and I've been working with the cacao god ever since.
Well, let's talk about it,
the actual constituents of it, the antioxidants,
at what point it's still good for you
and at what point it's not good for you.
OK, well, for me personally,
the way that my research started,
started that moment, that second when that happened,
and that night, I stayed up all night researching chocolate.
I grabbed every book at my friend's house that he had
that even touched on chocolate.
It was a really synchronistic night
of unparalleled proportions.
That began the research that became the book,
Naked Chocolate.
which I wrote with Shazzie, who was actually there
when that incident happened, and she kind of
is the living foods guru of the U.K.,
kind of what I do in the U.S. and Canada,
she does over there,
and we put that book together,
and it was literally...
Where the research led was encapsulated
by the subtitle of the book,
"The astonishing truth about the world's greatest food".
I get chills even thinking, I'm getting chills right now.
What chocolate really is
is way beyond what people understand that it is.
It is the number one alchemical food in the world.
The great story of the alchemist who sells his soul
to the devil for fame and fortune now,
only to pay the price later, that entire story
was downloaded right out of the cacao bean
by Goethe, the great German philosopher,
who was a cacao and chocolate addict.
That's the part they never tell you.
They never tell you that food could affect your
architecture, your art, your inspiration,
your level of awareness,
that's the part they never tell you.
Oh, and it does.
I've made some incredible things with the raw cocoa.
Oh, my god.
I mean, and it gives a clarity that's unbelievable.
It's unbelievable.
If it's done correctly.
But again, let's talk about
what it means to do it correctly versus Hershey's.
Yeah.
Well, it's done with consciousness.
What Hershey's is doing, they're taking pesticide-infected
cacao beans, which is really a nut, so it's a cacao nut.
They, obviously, the whole slave labor issue
and everything that's going on in Africa about cacao
is just awful, and these giant companies have supported that
from the beginning all along,
and then they're cooking the heck out of it
because it's contaminated with mold
because they don't have a clean process,
it's just all done very, very low-technology, low-tech,
and then they cook the heck out of that stuff
then they winnow the skins off,
and then they literally press the oils out of it.
They take the cake, they separate it out,
they refine it down, they cook it again,
then they add alkali, like potassium carbonate
or calcium carbonate, to the actual chocolate powder,
and then they add that into whatever to make it chocolate.
Meanwhile, the oils that have been stripped away,
once through a high-pressure grinding method,
and basically pressing the oil out,
and the next through hexane extraction,
they take that, which hexane is a carcinogen.
They take that and they add it into all the cosmetics,
they create suntan lotions out of it,
and then sometimes, a little tiny bit of it will go back
into the chocolate bar.
Right.
The average little chocolate bar
that you buy for two dollars in a store
literally contains less than three cacao beans,
and those have been massively damaged by heat,
so they contain, actually, chocolate,
the nut contains omega-6 fatty acids,
and if you heat that, it turns into a trans-fatty acid,
so all processed chocolate contains trans-fatty acids
because it's indigenous to the cooking of the cacao bean.
Thank you for bringing that up,
very important point.
Let's look at, OK, now you've got these beautiful,
a lot of natural kind of chocolate products here.
What would a nice natural chocolate product look like?
Well it would be made out of raw chocolate,
it would be organic,
it would be clean.
That means that the source is microbe-free, so not dirty.
A lot of nuts and seeds, the stuff you buy in stores,
they're dirty, I mean, you gotta wash them.
If you put them in a big thing of water
and put a little hydrogen peroxide in,
you'll see a lot of dirt, and then you'd be like,
"Whoa, that stuff's
"not exactly..."
Well, now,
they're pasteurizing almonds.
Yeah, now they're, god knows what they're doing,
not even pasteurizing it,
they're moving towards irradiating--
I know, I know, it makes me so upset.
Anyway, let's continue on that good chocolate story.
Yeah, so good chocolate will have those components,
and then good chocolate will be mixed
with chocolate's best friends, like vanilla, right?
Like agave, like honey, I mean,
you take a cacao bean, dip it in honey and eat that,
that experience right there can change your life that fast.
Change your whole food reality,
everything that you think about food.
That's the whole thing,
is if you can get this alchemy right, you get, for example,
cinnamon and cacao have a long history together.
Some of the great alchemical mixtures from down South,
South America, the herbal components.
Spices.
The spices like nutmeg and cloves
and that kind of stuff,
this stuff has a natural affinity for cacao,
'cause cacao takes the best herbs
and the most powerful superfoods
and the great spices of the world,
and synergizes them together alchemically,
and then you eat that and you get all that nutrition,
it's all raw, it's all organic,
and you're also, interestingly enough,
having the best day ever, too
because chocolate makes all those chemicals
that make you feel good.
Yeah, they do.
You know, like, they can feel like,
"Whoa, I want to keep living on this planet."
Yeah, and you don't feel depleted
at the end of it.
It's not like it's a big spike
and then you suddenly drop off
and are just searching for coffee, for example.
It's really a clean high.
Yeah, I believe that's the whole point of living foods.
It's like how do we get the high
without the hangover, always.
How are we always high without any hangover
on the back end or side effects.
Yeah.
And we are so trained or conditioned
that if you get high, then you have to go low,
it's like that's a conditioning, right?
You get high, you get the alcohol high,
next thing you know, you have the hangover.
That, to even get people out of that program is interesting
because people think, oh you get high,
then you're gonna have a crash or something like this.
It's like, no, you keep going higher and higher,
and your highs get higher and your lows get higher,
so the lows keep going higher,
and your highs keep going higher,
and next thing you know, it is the best ever.
You're living the best reality ever,
and then you discover,
this is such a powerful point about living food,
you discover that the truth of the esoteric teachings
that heaven lies within.
I never could even touch that.
It was all a distant idea.
Lots of yogis have come to me
who've gotten into living food and told me that.
That the heaven lies within concept is a distant idea
until living foods comes in the picture.
Then suddenly, inside yourself, you feel,
"Whoa, I feel good."
Yeah, you feel like your cells
are full of light.
Yeah, full of light, yeah!
Frequencies of light, all the minerals,
which are frequencies of light, illuminating your soul.
That is the power of living foods.
You come fully, your soul comes fully alive into your body,
and I mean, it's hard,
it's challenging to tell people the truth about living food
because they can't believe it.
They can't understand it, I mean, I couldn't understand it.
I have no reference point.
I grew up on Flintstones Chewable Vitamins and Froot Loops!
(Voiceover laughs)
And pasteurized, homogenized, larvicide,
pesticide, herbicide, antibioticized,
chemicalized, hormonally altered,
pus-filled, chock-filled, blood-filled milk!
Yeah, yeah, yeah. (laughs)
I mean, how could I have any concept
of what food could really be with that?
I didn't, there's no way I could,
but the experiences have taught me
that the power of living foods
to rejuvenate every cell is ever-present.
Living foods is always around us all the time
and at any time, we can just go, decision,
now I'm on to this, and just bringing light in.
It's powerful.
Well,
if people watching this are not juiced up,
no pun intended by this,
I don't know what it's going to take.
You're just wonderful.
I've followed your work for a few years now
and thank you so much for taking time for us.
Thank you, it's an absolute pleasure.
Yeah, have the best day ever.
To check out more of David's work,
you can click on the link below
to purchase one of his books, including Eating for Beauty
and Naked Chocolate.
For those of you who enjoyed this interview,
you may also enjoy our talk with Dr. Edward Group,
also here on this site.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(bright electronic music)